this is going to be a brief overview of
editing and saving an image and filter
storm 3 on ipad let's begin by loading a
photo filter storm 3 is interface is
broken down into these buttons and tabs
from top to bottom we have load image
automations star rating slider this
one's a visual history of the edits
you've made app info export tab metadata
filters into cannabis let's start with
cropping in the canvas tab so here you
can enter in in these boxes your own
ratio one-to-one or 423 whatever you
like or if you can just tap the cross
crop button and it will default to the
current ratio so here you can pinch to
zoom and you can swipe to position the
image you can also move around the
borders mat manually or use one of the
preset ratios and when you hit the check
button it will crop to us ever within
the lines so I'll just do that right now
scale to fit is pretty self-explanatory
you put in dimensions and pixels and it
will make sure the image fits inside of
a box of that of that size well being as
large as possible so if you put in 3,000
by 2,000 it would make this long side
three thousand pixels in this shorter
side 2,000 or 2,500 whatever the ratio
was rooted in flip it's 90 degrees and
vertically and horizontally this is a
straightening tool if your horizon is
off the borders tool here lets you add a
colored border also lets you change the
size of this drop shadow on the image
and you can change the colors of the
border or the to the border or the
outline you can also turn the outline on
and off here and apply it
canvas size lets you adjust the area of
the image without scaling it and if you
make it larger you can set the color of
the new canvas and this is a regular
scaling tool that will scale the exact
dimensions you enter now let's go to
filters before we start applying these
I'm just going to go into my history
here you can see everything we've done
so far and just go back to the beginning
and tap on that to revert to the initial
state let's look at brightness contrast
so you see we have these sliders on the
side most of the filters use these
sliders you can just pull them up and
down you'll get a preview many of the
filters have live preview some of them
you have to once you release your finger
it'll generate the preview the Settings
button is here you can set to preview
only on the right side for example or
only on the left side let's keep it on
the entire image right now you can
change the contrast however you like I
don't actually want to do this right now
so I'm just going to use the cancel
button up here fly buttons down here and
I'm going to go to curves which is
something I do want to use so I'm going
to first set the curves for the
background of this image the sky um if
you don't know how to use curves there
is some text documentation on the
website it's a bit involved to go into
in the video so I suggest you read it
I'm going to change this to RGB curves
going to tap the Add point button then
tap on the curve control to add the
point so this is about what I want but
you can see that uh if this is what I do
then I lose all the details in the sky
divers and I don't want to do that so
what I'm going to do is instead of using
the apply button I'm going to use the
mask button here so one with the picture
of a brush
and we enter our masking mode so now we
can use all these masking tools you have
brushes and various things which I'll go
into right now so the first one is
simply it lets you swipe and zoom in
like that freely without editing the
image second one is the brush we can set
the hardness of the brush and the
opacity and the size and it will scale
few zoom in so if it's if it's big and i
zoom in it'll be slightly smaller when i
zoom in let's just erase all of those no
because I didn't want to do any of that
the gradient tool I have a bunch of
different sorts of gradients circular
and various linear gradients save that
for later this is a color range tool
it'll select the color beneath this loop
and it will apply the adjustments to
everything that's similar to that color
so here I guess mostly the parachute
here gets mostly the sky also not going
to use that right now pacity tool this
is a simple slider vignette tool allows
you to apply a vignette a circular
vignette as the mask can set the fall
off but what I do want to do is you go
back to the gradient tool and use this
inverse circular gradient set it there
so we get this nice fading and the
bright point is near the focal point of
the image which is what we want so we'll
just go ahead and add that to the mask
that'll zoom in here and just to make
sure that they don't get too dark i'm
just going to quickly erase it a little
bit from them just to keep things a bit
brighter
multiply that now let's go back into the
curves and this time instead of going
for the background i'm going to use
luminance curves and set it for the
parachute just make it really contrast
you like that now make it pop so I'll
just go back to my masking tools go to
my brush I can just start brushing if
you like you can come to the settings
here and show mask of the color and
paint it on like this sometimes useful
to make sure you don't go over anywhere
or to make sure you've erased everything
you want but normally I prefer to work
with just the blended mask if you go too
far you can just take your eraser and
fix your mistake like this
so once i'm done i can just apply that
there's a bunch of spots here i could
remove with the cloning tool but i'm
going to do that as a separate video and
right now just skip ahead to exporting
here's the export tab you can see
there's settings you can set the maximum
processing side smaller it's going to be
a faster processing time in smaller
image of course and you can set the jpeg
quality and you can also scale it at the
site us type of export so if you select
photo library will save to the camera
roll and the ipad an email will bring up
an email sheet you can select both and
save it to the camera roll and bring up
an email sheet I guess I'll do that
right now and just tap the send photo
button that will reprocess this will
take longer on your actual iPad I'm
doing this on the simulator which will
process it much faster because computers
much faster but it's not too bad and
it'll so now it's safe to the library
it's brought up the email sheet and
we're done